---
layout: post
title: "heroku"
description: "less than beta quality"
category:
tags: [heroku, jekyll, meta]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

After playing with jekyll on Git Hub's pages, I realized I needed something with a bit more zest. I needed plug-in support. I found Jonas Forsberg post entitled [Jekyll + Heroku + Unicorn = Blazing fast blogging](http://jonasforsberg.se/2012/07/22/jekyll-heroku-unicorn) and basically followed the step outlined below.

`sudo gem install heroku`
		
`sudo gem install bundler`

`heroku auth:login`
 	
`git clone git@github.com:himynameisjonas/jekyll-heroku-unicorn.git`
 	
`cd jekyll-heroku-unicorn`
 	
`bundle install`
 	
`heroku create`
 	
`git push heroku master`
	

That lead to a complete fail.

	Running: bundle install --without development:test --path vendor/bundle --binstubs bin/ --deployment
	You are trying to install in deployment mode after changing
	your Gemfile. Run `bundle install` elsewhere and add the
	updated Gemfile.lock to version control.
	You have added to the Gemfile:
	* source: https://github.com/adaoraul/ra... (at master)
	You have deleted from the Gemfile:
	* source: git://github.com/adaoraul/rack... (at master)
	You have changed in the Gemfile:
	* rack-jekyll from `https://github.com/adaoraul/ra... (at master)` to `no specified source`
	
Time to regroup, I searched around and found a nice how-to guide, [Jekyll on Heroku](http://www.thomas.stachl.me/blog/2012/05/26/jekyll-on-heroku.html) by Thomas Stachl. It seem straight forward, yet it to failed. I looked around some more, and found [Deploying Jekyll sites to Heroku with Rack-Jekyll](http://www.mikemayo.org/2012/deploying-jekyll-sites-to-heroku-with-rack-jekyll) which gave two little snippets of code.

	gem 'rack-jekyll', :git => 'https://github.com/adaoraul/rack-jekyll.git', :require => 'rack/jekyll'

and

	require 'bundler'
	Bundler.require(:default, :production)
	
	run Rack::Jekyll.new
	
Ah-ha, why not meld all of this goodness together. Drat, another failure.

	Heroku push rejected, no Cedar-supported app detected
	
Hmmm, thinking... Eureka! Wait bundler isn't the app I wish to deploy...

 My new config.ru file
 
	require 'bundler'
	require "rack/jekyll"
	Bundler.require(:default, :production)
	
	run Rack::Jekyll.new(:destination => 'public')

My Gemfile

	source :rubygems

	gem "rake"                # actually not need for heroku but for the provided Rakefile
	gem "RedCloth"            # if you want to use the Textile Markup Language
	#gem "jekyll", "~> 0.11.2" # we need at least this version so jekyll will use Ruby 1.9.2
	gem 'rack-jekyll', :git => 'https://github.com/adaoraul/rack-jekyll.git', :require => 'rack/jekyll'
	#gem "foreman"             # this is a tool to test and use the Procfile locally
	gem "heroku"              # if you install the Heroku Toolbelt you won't need this but it's good practice
	gem 'unicorn'
	
My Procfile

	web: bundle exec unicorn -p $PORT -c ./unicorn.rb

My unicorn.rb

	worker_processes 4 # amount of unicorn workers to spin up
	timeout 30         # restarts workers that hang for 30 seconds
	preload_app true   # avoid regeneration of jekyll site for each fork

	
Once I deployed the app in the cloud had some curious extra data. I noticed I also forgot to included a Procfile file. I added the relevant lines redeployed the app and now I just crash. One wobbly step forward. After some thought, I noticed I forgot to include the unicorn config file. #fail.

#####coderay
I chose you use `coderay_css: style` to stylize code, this provides for inline styling. Since I dnon't plan on providing much code examples on the site, so I don't want to server up that style sheet all the time. However, if your planning on having alot of code snippits `coderay_css: css` is your option and generate your style sheet via `coderay stylesheet > coderay.css`

#####Prerequisites
 Xcode -- Xcode -> Preferences -> Downlads -> Install Command Line Tools
 
`ruby <(curl -fsSk https://raw.github.com/mxcl/homebrew/go)`
 
`brew install git`

`gem update --system`

`gem install jekyll`

`gem install bundler`

`gem install heroku`
